- Computer performs calcs and remembers the results
-Declarative Knowledge - statements of fact (e.g. the paint is yellow)
-imperative Knowledge - "how to" knowledge (e.g. take paint brush, stick bristles in yellow paint, put brush with paint on wall until fully yellow, repeat)

Algorithm ~ a finite list of instructions that describe a computation that when executed on a set of inputs will proceed through a set of well-defined states and eventually produce an output

Fixed-program computer ~ designed to do very specific things, like specified mathematical problems
Stored-program computer ~ Stores and manipulates a sequence of instructions, and has components that will execute any instruction in that sequence

Von Neumann - data and instructions live in memory. 
Program counter - points to particular location in memory, and computation starts be executing the instruction at that point
Flow of Control - instructions read linearly until branch 

Universal Turing Machine - unbounded memory in form of tape where you could write 0 or 1. 
Church-turing thesis: If a function is computable, a turing machine can be programmed to compute it

Not all problems are computable. 
Halting problem - impossible to write a program that given an arbitrary program P, prints true IFF P will run forever. 
 
Turing Completeness - programming language that can be used to simulate universal turing machine


Python Primitive Constructs: literals (e.g. numbers or strings) and infix operators (e.g. + and / )
Syntax: the way in which the string of chars and symbols are formed
static semantics: what syntax has meaning and value. I.e. literal operator literal is valid syntactically but contains a semantic error in the use of 123/'abc'
Semantics: meaning of a syntactically correct  string of symbols with no static semantic errors. Programming languages have only one correct semantic meaning. 


FINGER EXCERCISE:
algorithm for driving between
two destinations. Write it the way you
would for a person, and then imagine
what would happen if that person were as
stupid as a computer, and executed the
algorithm exactly as written. How many
traffic tickets might that person get?


1) Get into the car. 
2) put key in ignition to start the car. 
3) follow direction on the map to get there.
4) park the vehicle and exit safely

If computer - get into car is vague (may break window to get in, may only put one finger in the car, etc.)
 - Put key in ignition vague - (which key? where is ignition? turn it or not? car may not even start).
 - computer doesn't know how to get out of park or if to change to drive or reverse. 
- follow directions on map vague (follow them by looking at the instructions or by driving?)
- doesn't know speed limit? doesn't know to drive on the road or straight through grass?

